# Java II Review Questions Part I.

1. What is a class?
A class can be seen as an object constructor or blueprint to create objects. Classes are categories.



2. What is the difference between a class and an object?

Classes are categories and objects are items (instances) within each category.
All Objects in a given class have the same methods or properties.


3. What is the difference between static and instance fields? Give an example of each.

An instance field is when each instance of a class has its own set of fields.
A Static field is a field that does not belong to any instance of a class


public class Car {
String color; // this is an instance variable.
  public Car() {
 } // this is a instance field



4. What is is the purpose of a main method?

In any Java program, the main() method is the starting point from where compiler starts program execution. So, the compiler needs to call the main() method.
If the main() is allowed to be non-static, then while calling the main() method JVM has to instantiate its class.
The main() method in Java must be declared public, static and void. If any of these are missing, the Java program will compile but a runtime error will be thrown.

main method is public so that it can be accessible everywhere and to every object which may desire to use it for launching the application.

5. What makes a method recursive? Give an example.
When the method call it self, two main requirements, a stop condition and recursive call similar to an if statement
public int sum(int n) {
    if (n >= 1) {
        return sum(n - 1) + n;
    }
    return n;
}
6. Define the following terms and cite a specific example for each...

	- Encapsulation- grouping related variables and functions that operate on  them into objects


	- Inheritance- an object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object
class Subclass-name extends Superclass-name
{
   //methods and fields
}
	- Polymorphism-

	- Abstraction

7. What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding?

8. What are four types of visibility in Java?

9. Give two examples of how to define an array.

10. What are the differences between interfaces and abstract classes?
Collapse












